Population: Approximately ten billion

Geography: Lifeless tundra blasted by unsurvivable heat (day side) or frozen into poisonous crystalscapes (night side).

Planetary Governance: Princeps Ultima Gol Bessor (presumed deceased). Archdomina Aexekra Vakuul of Belaxia Foundry rules as self-proclaimed regent. The Suspire Priesthood holds the most functional leverage and power, should it ever deign to wield it.

Tithe Grade: Aptus Nihil (no longer capable of paying Terra’s due)

A barren rock of vast mineral wealth wreathed in storms of toxic clouds and corrosive acid rain, Avachrus is locked in close orbit of the Gilead star. The force of gravity keeps one side of Avachrus facing the system’s sun, its blazing heat reducing simple metals to slag in seconds, while the other side is bound in perpetual night.

The billions who serve the Adeptus Mechanicus on Avachrus spend their entire existence underground, living in perpetual toil. Foundry-forges dot the world, protecting its citizens from the elements with sheathes of iron. Beneath the surface are vast engineering warrens, each a self-contained atmospheric blister of industrial activity. Surrounding the planet is an orbital ring of shipyards and space-docks through which the wealth of Avachrus flows. Two moons orbit Avachrus: the silvery Odo and the black-rocked Uru.

Amidst the forges, foundries, and fortresses are other, older structures. The Eternal Engines are relics of the Dark Age of Technology recovered and repurposed by the Magos of the Cult Mechanicus. Vast solar collectors power the city-foundries of the world and the great space elevators that reach to the orbital ring above. These are essential for the running of the planet’s other machinery and a failure in any Eternal Engine dooms millions to die in seconds. Imperial records show such a tragedy occurring only once, at Illiarch. The foundrycity now stands empty and silent, a haunting reminder of the fragility of life on this Forge World.

A sacred order of Tech-Priests known as the ‘Suspire’ tend to these vital machines, granting the order great political power. However, they remain aloof from the infighting among the cities and other Magos — or so they claim. Recently Inquisitor Argyle of the Order Malleus fortress on Imperia has been seen in contact with several Magos-adepts of the Suspire. Combined teams of Skitarii and Argyle’s retinue have been reported combing the shell of Illiarch, with artefacts removed to Imperia under Tech-Priest supervision.

For all it’s impressive power, the resources of Avachrus are finite; its moons were hollowed ages ago for their mineral wealth and have since become havens for pirates and Corsairs. The Legio Kaurthos, long deployed across the galaxy, has left many of its fortifications empty. However, there is more archeotech here than the Eternal Engines, and scavengers have begun gathering in the night of Imperium Nihilus to plunder it.

Xenos and renegade raids have become an increasing threat, but more worrying to Archdomina Vakuul by far are the rumours of the presence of a scrap code beginning to infest isolated systems. Hushed whispers tell of a new order growing within the shadows of the Adeptus Mechanicus on Avachrus, of tech-heresy practised in abandoned warren cities, and of a mad Magos crafting technological horrors.