Classification: Hive World
Population: Approximately sixteen billion
Geography: Arid wasteland plains, lifeless alkali flats
Planetary Governance: Lord-Militant Taleria Fylamon
Tithe Grade: Aptus Nihil (no longer capable of paying
Terra’s due)

Gilead Primus, capital world of the Gilead System, home to uncounted billions of Imperial citizens, and the seat of power of Lord-Militant Taleria Fylamon. Massive hives dominate the red rock wastelands, and the scars of centuries of aggressive strip mining cut deeply through the crimson deserts. Abandoned mining towns and way-stations dot the land, but all life on Gilead Primus is contained within the multi-kilometre tall hives. The massive skeletons of carnosaurs that would dwarf the megafauna of Nethreus litter the red sands surrounding the hives, long fallen to the silence of extinction. The hives themselves rise kilometres from the harsh desert wastes, with the uppermost spires providing the palatial housing for the lesser branches of Imperial noble families and racketeers who rule each hive.

Politics here run on a knife edge, as gaining rank means greater privilege, power, and breathable air above the poisonous effusions of Imperium industry. Manufactorums ache with the suffering of billions of workers, each enduring backbreaking labour to pay for a taste of clean air and the nutrients to survive. The low-orbit plate Brassyl is the only orbital body visible from the surface. This magnificent floating remnant of the Dark Age of Technology drifts through the toxic clouds with the glimmer of void shields, the static haze of atmosphere scrubbing fields, and the shimmer of rad-barriers. Here are the fortress palaces of the elite of Gilead Primus: the nobility who have ascended beyond the hive spires themselves. Gilded cathedrals overseen by cardinal-confessors of the Adeptus Ministorum rise in glory upon the plate of Brassyl, and high-ranking Adeptus Administratum officials make their homes among small estates filled with luxuries. The technologies here are tended by select representatives of the Adeptus Mechanicus, producing an artificial paradise upon which lesser nobles in the hive spires gaze upon with envy. Five moons orbit the planet, all shrouded from the surface dwellers due to the perpetual cloud of pollutants and radioactive dust that fills the stratosphere.

The five moons of Gilead Primus are:  

Anval, an ore processor, super-massive manufactorum and chem-plant.

Skaelas, an ore mine twice the size of Anval. This moon’s gravity is unusually high, and houses a penal complex where an inmate’s life span is measured in months working the mines. The Ogryn guards are occasionally called on to serve in Tyleria Fylamon’s assaults.

Saintshold, the fortified barracks-moon of the Gilead Gravediggers, the system’s Imperial Guard regiment drilled to exemplary standards under the watchful eye of the Lord Militant.

Daedalon, a graveyard of untold billions with more arriving in funerary barges every day, presided over by the Adeptus Ministorum and a Preceptory of the Order of the Sanctified Shield.

Imperia, a gilded rock from which the wealthiest masters of Gilead Primus — patriarchs, matriarchs and the favoured heirs of ancient Imperial noble bloodlines, look down upon the world they own but have never walked. The grandeur here is an echo of distant Terra, both in opulence and might. Palace-fortifications are the homes of noble families, Imperial lord-generals, and the scions of the Navis Nobilite houses Omincara and Taliandru. Lord Militant Fylamon herself resides upon Imperia, in the holy site of Julyanna Gilead’s own palace, founded in the days of the Gilead Crusade. The most secure and populous bastion of the Inquisition towers menacingly from Imperia, an Ordo Hereticus fortress casting its vigilant gaze across the system.