Population: Approximately ten million

Geography: Volcanic wastelands undergoing continual tectonic unrest

Planetary Governance: High King Vilmaar XIV of the Acastan Lineage

Tithe Grade: Aptus Nihil (no longer capable of paying Terra’s due)

Nethreus is a tectonic nightmare of a world. Volcanoes spit fire and ash into the sky with unrelenting fury and earthquakes ripple across the broken surface of the second planet from the Gilead star. Temperatures burn hot, but humanity survives on the surface of this hostile rock. Megafauna fly, stalk, and burrow across Nethreus like nightmare beasts risen from the mythologies of Old Earth.

The population lives in shielded fortress-cities called ‘dominions’ where they cultivate Nethreus’s only known native vegetation: a hardy breed of tuber called ‘world root’. The people of Nethreus are forever under siege, breeding a mentality that separates them from the rest of the Gilead System, their planet functionally abandoned after it was settled during the Gilead Crusade. The Barons of the Acastan League have little interest in affairs outside their world — unless, of course, those affairs further their own plots.

The Knights of House Acasta hone their battle skills against the planet’s megafauna that persistently attack the void-shielded dominions. Chitinous insectoid monstrosities, drill-headed bore-worms, and serpents a hundred metres long all provide constant challenge and threat to the warriors of the house, breeding a brazen bravery into each generation of Nethreun. Even those who serve on the great antigrav land trains or sky-freighters are used to facing down terrors that few others in the system will ever know. This builds a fierce loyalty and sense of martial pride in the population, while also encouraging the isolationism that runs through the dominions. Such pride, while serving many citizens well, has also led to recent social schisms in House Acasta. The Barons all swear fealty to the Throne of Ivory Knives and whoever sits upon it, but secretly covet the throne and the power it brings.

Young King Vilmaar has proven receptive to advances from Rogue Trader Jakel Varonius. The Varonius Dynasty has traded off-world flora and Adeptus Mechanicus services to convince the monarch to lend the Knights of House Acasta to the plans of unity within the system. As the threat of Chaos incursion grows, the knights are called upon more and more. Although precious few have been committed by the king, these requests draw resentment from the barons of Nethreus. Recently envoys have been seen at various dominions, some bearing the livery of Lord Militant Tyleria Fylamon, while others have arrived in secret bearing no livery at all. Compounding the reluctance of the barons is the imminent threat of new breeds of megafauna that assault dominions and land train convoys in the southern hemisphere. Casualties not seen in generations have been felt by the House as they face an enemy with an uncanny intelligence.