Population: Approximately nine billion
Geography: Varied but temperate; said to be
reminiscent of pre-Imperial Ancient Terra
Planetary Governance: Sortium-Lord Eshgar
Quintillius Lorae
Tithe Grade: Aptus Nihil (no longer capable of paying
Terra’s due)

A green jewel in the Gilead void, bountiful Ostia is a planet of vast forests, fields, and oceans. It stands as a mirror to Terra in her ancient prime, verdant and abundant. This glorious world is the breadbasket of Gilead, providing vital foodstuffs and clean water across the system, the lion’s share of which goes to feed the massive populations on Gilead Primus. So vital is this world that it is surrounded by a network of defensive satellites, orbital batteries, and space stations known as the Crown of Blades; Ostia bears enough firepower to dissuade or decimate any attack fleet. A garrison of two million souls maintain Ostia’s battle stations.

Weather fronts of all kinds blow across Ostia; the crops are varied, and many of the biomes are halcyon places. However, the lives of many Ostians are dour compared to their environment. Demands for food have escalated rapidly since the Gilead was cut off from sources of sustenance beyond the System. In particular, the noble houses of Gilead Primus and the refugee hordes of Enoch increase the pressure with undeniable requests. As a consequence, those who till the fields in gigantic combi-harvesters reap little of what they sow.

Ostia is ruled by the ‘Sortium’, a hierarchy of Administratum officials that oversee everything bigger than a small town. These bureaucrats are responsible for the rationing system that leaves the population hungry. The Sortium rule with a combination of subjugation and Ecclesiarchal manipulation; Ostians worship the Emperor as a sun god, and any Imperial officials are treated with a detached awe by the masses of mech-plowers and villam harvesters. The populace would never dare to deny the warriors and wise messengers of the Lord of Dawn. The Sortium have used this fervour to their advantage, ensuring crops are rationed first to themselves, then to the military, then their demanding superiors on Gilead Primus.

Impious uprisings have thus far been easily put down, though they are rising in number and the rebels are showing a marked creativity in using farm equipment as weaponry. To avoid any loss of productivity, the Sortium have employed Tech Adepts of the Cult Mechanicus to create Servitors by lobotomising captive rebels. The prototype Servo- Farms have yielded consistent harvests over the past two years, though the Adepts have repeatedly denied visitation requests from even the Sortium.

Scattered across Ostia are the shattered ruins of an ancient empire. Mosses and creepers cling to odd structures of wraithbone marked with Aeldari runes. Small collections of ruined buildings form intricate and elaborate patterns, too few to be the remains of settlements, but too numerous and precise to be incidental. The native population avoids these places, considering them haunted or cursed, and local folklore is filled with wild tales of these strange ruins that look like they were grown instead of built. These tales are often quashed by Ministorum preachers or turned to the ends of the Imperial Creed, but recently Imperial Guard regiments have begun patrolling near the most prominent ruins as shadowy shapes have been seen flitting amongst them.